<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->

# Usage

After setting up and running bytesophos, you can immediately begin interacting with the system.

---

## Upload a Codebase

You can provide the codebase to be indexed in one of two ways:

- **Upload a ZIP file**  
  Drag and drop or select a compressed archive of your project.
- **Provide a GitHub repository URL**  
  Paste the link to a GitHub repository.

!!! note
    Only relevant files such as source code, text files, and documentation will be processed.  
    Binary or irrelevant files (e.g., compiled objects, large assets) are skipped automatically.

---

## Wait for indexing

Once a codebase is submitted:

- The backend downloads the provided files (ZIP or clones GitHub repo)
- Relevant files are parsed and indexed in the Postgres database with pgvector extension.
- Vector embeddings are generated to enable semantic search and retrieval. These are stored in pgvector table `embeddings`

!!! tip
    The indexing time depends on the size of the repository.  
    Small projects typically index within seconds, while larger ones may take a few minutes.

You can monitor progress directly in the web UI (Toast notification).

---

## Ask questions

After indexing is complete, you can begin querying the codebase through the built-in chat interface.

- Ask questions in natural (e.g., “Where is the user authentication implemented?”_).
- The system retrieves relevant documents from the vector store and feeds them as context to the LLM.
- Responses are generated by the `qwen/qwen3-32b` model running on Groq, enabling logical reasoning and code-aware answers.

!!! info
    Questions are meant to be asked in English questions because of the limitations of the used model `qwen/qwen3-32b` (pretrained on English and Chinese text).
    
    Because the conversation history is stored, context builds over time, so the assistant may provide you with follow-up questions related to your previous queries.

---

## Deleting conversations

The interface provides tools to manage your question history:

- Remove conversations permanently if no longer needed.
- Remove repo permanently if no longer needed.

---

## Typical workflows

Here are some common use cases and example prompts:

| Goal                         | Example prompt                                                      |
| ---------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Understand project structure | “Summarize the key modules and their functionality.”             |
| Locate implementation of a functionality         | “Where is the function that handles user registration?”             |
| Debug or optimize            | “Explain how the caching mechanism works and suggest improvements.” |
| Learn API usage              | “Show me how the API endpoints in the project are defined.”                    |

!!! tip
    You can ask follow-up questions like “Which of those endpoints requires authentication?” without restating the entire context.

---

## Fresh start

If you need to fresh start the application, run the following command which will remove all database data (users, conversations, repos...):

```bash
docker-compose down -v
```
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->
